Joggle 0.1.0 README
===================

Please see the file COPYING for licensing and warranty information.  The
latest version of this software is available at the following URL:

    http://pablotron.org/software/joggle/

Overview
========
Joggle is an Twitter to XMPP relay.  Jabber messages are sent as tweets,
and tweets are sent as instant messages.  

System Requirements
===================
Here's what you'll need to get started using Joggle:

  * Ruby 1.8 (a recent version, including RubyGems)
  * JSON (gem install json)
  * XMPP4r (gem install xmpp4r)

You'll also need a spare Jabber account to relay messages.  If you don't
have your own Jabber server, you can create a free one through
jabber.org or gmail.com.

Installation
============
If you're using Debian or a Debian-based Linux distribution (e.g.
Ubuntu), then something like this should suffice:

    sudo apt-get install ruby
    sudo gem install joggle

Note: You really do need the RubyGems version of XMPP4r; the Debian
version of xmpp4r is horribly out of date, and won't work with Joggle
(or at all, for that matter).

Configuration
=============
The simplest way to get Joggle up and running is like so:

    # create ~/.joggle and make sure it's only readable by you
    mkdir ~/.joggle && chmod 700 ~/.joggle

    # add username and password to config
    echo 'runner.client.user joggle-example@example.com' > ~/.joggle/joggle.cfg
    echo 'runner.client.pass s3kr3t_' > ~/.joggle/joggle.cfg

    # run joggle
    joggle --config ~/.joggle/joggle.cfg

Want to run Joggle via Cron?  Here's how:

    # run joggle every time the system is restarted
    @reboot joggle --daemon --config  ~/.joggle/joggle.cfg

Note: Although you can specify the JID and password via the command-line
or the environment, doing so is not recommended on a shared system; see
the "Security Considerations" section below for additional information.

Using Joggle
============
In order to use Joggle you'll need to bind your Jabber account to your
twitter account.  Here's how:

 1. Add the Joggle Jabber ID to your IM client (e.g.
    joggle-example@example.com in the examples above).
 2. Register your Twitter account with Joggle by sending a 
    message to Joggle in the following form:

    ".register TWITTER_USER TWITTER_PASS"

    (replace TWITTER_USER and TWITTER_PASS with your Twitter username
    and password, respectively)

Note that more than one person can use the Joggle Jabber relay.  Each
person just needs to follow the steps above to bind their Jabber and
Twitter accounts (this feature can be disabled, see the "Advanced
Configuration" section below).  At the moment you can only register one
Twitter account per person, although this may change in the future.

If you change your mind and decide not to use Joggle any more, you can
tell it to forget your Twitter account information by sending a message
like this:

    ".unregister"

There are several other commands available via message as well; use the
".help" command for a complete list.

Advanced Configuration
======================
TODO

  * removing automated registration
  * directive list

Security Considerations
=======================
Since Joggle is saves your Twitter username and password, an unsavory
system administrator or malicious user could obtain both by sifting
through the Joggle storage or log files.

By default, Joggle does its best to protect against malicious users by
creating the storage and log files in a directory that only accessible
by the owner (chmod 700).  

The implications here are as follows:

  * Don't use a Joggle relay run by someone you don't trust.
  * Don't run a Joggle relay on a system that isn't secure.
  * Don't change the path for the configuration, storage, or log files, 
    without properly securing the new location (e.g. chmod 700).
  * Don't specify the username and password via the command-line on a
    shared system, since the command-line arguments can be viewed by
    other users (e.g. "ps axu")

You should also be wary of your Jabber providers; many Jabber servers of
them do not configure Jabber with TLS or SASL enabled, which means that
both your Jabber and Twitter credentials are sent over the wire as plain
text.

Joggle connects to Twitter via SSL.  If you're having problems with SSL,
you can disable this feature by adding the following directives to your
config file:

  # use http instead of https for Twitter updates
  # (do not do this unless you have to)
  twitter.fetcher.url.timeline  http://twitter.com/statuses/friends_timeline.json
  twitter.fetcher.url.tweet     http://twitter.com/statuses/update.json

Note that doing this is NOT RECOMMENDED; your Twitter username and
password will be sent over the wire as plain text.

About the Author
================
Paul Duncan <pabs@pablotron.org>
http://pablotron.org/
